# SANs-sensitivity-optimization
Sensitivity Analysis and Time-cost tradeoff optimization of Stochastic Activity Networks

Activity networks (AN)s is a powerful tool for project management, parallel computing and circuit design. An activity network is a directed acyclic graph. In an activity network, each arcs represents an activity of the project and the arc length represents the duration for completing the given activity. The directed arcs between nodes in an activity network represent the precedence relationship between different activities in the project. In a stochastic activity network (SAN), the arc lengths are random variables following probability distributions. 

The path length in an AN equals to the summation of arc lengths that are on the path. The path with longest length is called critical path, whose length is the project completion time (PCT). In stochastic activity networks (SAN)s, activity durations (arc lengths) are random variables with known density functions. In SANs, we are interested in: expected PCT, distribution of PCT, minimizing the expected PCT with limited budget.

Codes in this project are written in Python 3 and are used to estimating gradients in SANs. Then using the gradients estimators to solve a time-cost tradeoff optimization problem in SANs. Below are the description of different .py files:

NetGraph.py        randomly generate an activity network with given number of nodes and arcs.
SimulateArcs.py    simulate activities durations in a given network with given distribution functions of activity durations.
CoreEst.py         calculate different gradient estimators in AN using Monte Carlo simulation.
dEY1st.py          calculate different gradient estimators for the first moment of PCT.
EYdiff.py          calculate the difference of PCT causing by large perturbations of distribution parameters.
timecost_opt.py    solve the time-cost tradeoff optimization problem to minimize PCT using gradient estimators generated by Monte Carlo simulations.



